     [>] Reader for Roche

     Visualization and analysis tool for drawing Roche lobes of
     evolving binaries. Roche can be used as a stand alone program
     reading data from the command line or from a file which is
     generated by SeBa. Eventually Roche should be able to read from
     any other binary evolution program.

     Roche requires starlab (version 4.1.1 or later) and pgplot
     libraries. The latest version of starlab can be obtained from the
     starlab web site. The pgplot package can be obtained from the
     pgplot web site.

     Working of the program
     The Roche-lobe is drawn in Rsun. The original primary star is
     always printed on the left and its companion to the left. Normally
     a star is represented by a circle with the appropriate size. When
     Roche-lobe filling, the star is not circular but Roche-lobe
     filling. The stellar core is drawn as a solid circle, the size of
     which equals the ratio of the stellar mass to the core mass: So
     the size of the represents its mass, not its actual radius. The
     color of the star represents its effective temperature (scale bar
     to the left). The center-of-mass of the binary system is indicated
     with a vertical dotted line.

     The image gives a representation of the two stars in their Roche
     lobes, the center-of-mass (dotted line), a size bar (top left) and
     the temperature scale bar (to the left). In addition the time (top
     left) is give in million years as well as a representation of the
     binary system in SPZFV format (see Portegies Zwart & Verbunt,
     1996, A&A 309, 179). The top right also indicates the state of the
     binary and, if applicable, the time scale on which mass transfer
     occurred in the lest step. on the top left corner the masses of
     the two stars (in Msun) and the orbital eccentricity are given.
     Various output formats are available. The output can be selected
     with the -f command line option.

      0  series of ps files with name SeBa_????.ps
      1  series of gif files with name SeBa_????.gif
      2  single ps file
      3  single gif file
      4  xwindows screen (only for command line input)

          download entire source code of roche.tar.gz

          roche.tar.gz contains the following files:
           README       This file
           Makefile     Makefile (based on starlab distribution
                        4.1.1 or earlier)
           roche.C      Takes binary parameters (semi-major axis,
                        eccentricity, primary and secondary
                        stellar parameters) and constructs a
                        ps-file or other graphics of a Roche-lobe
                        with the stars inside.
           roche.h      Header file for roche.C
           example.in   Example input file, generated with SeBa
           example.log  Output from roche from the input file
                        example.in
           example.ps   The resultant postscript file from
                        running
                        % roche -f 2 < example.in
           roche.txt    Text version of manybody.org/roche html
                        page.

          Typical command line (generates : example.log and
          roche.ps)
          % roche < example.in >& example.log

          For an example of the working of roche try
          http://www.manybody.org/cgi-bin/steve/binary_demo.pl.
          For more information see: http://www.manybody.org

          26 February 2003
          Simon F. Portegies Zwart
